# studentregistrationsystem AUTHOR : Soumodip Sinha [smdpsinha@gmail.com]
This is a basic student registration system project based on J2EE technology with JSP and CSS (tad bit) for the front end.

Description:

This project aims to create a portal for any educational institute.
It can be utilised by any such institution for maintaining its student intakes, councilors and course details.
A personal workspace for each councilor and also the registrar has been given by providing a profile section which can be updated when 
needed.


Abstract: 

* A data entry screen through which councilor enters data of students who is taking admission. Screen has fields to accept students name, email id , phone no .Choices of courses is available through dropdown list. For every student who has taken admission , a unique number will be generated by the system and that will bbe displayed on screen.
* A screen where all course names are given. When councilor selects one of the course and in another screen total capacity and enrolled student no will be displayed.
* Registrar can create a new course . For that purpose a screen needs to be developed which will accept all necessary details for a creating a course and save them in disk. For every course system must generate a unique course id.
* Registrar  can increase capacity of students . A screen to be developed for that purpose
* Institute offers courses on IT subjects. Example of some course are C, C++, Java, JEE etc. Each course has certain duration, start date, end date, total number of students for admission. 

Project Scope:
>> Availability
The system will be available on a online platform 24*7 for the institute body by the registrar to add councilor details
and by the councilor to add student’s at any hour of the day.
>> Admissions
It can manage all data about admissions and about adding councilor which will help the institution to make the registration
process easier and it will also help store data which helps the institution carry out various processes like even knowing the
number of seats available.
>> Course Management
This system gives the institution a detail study about the courses which include the start date, end date, duration, intake
which makes it easier for them to manage the intake and the duration.
>> Student Record Management
Maintain and edit students' as well as councilors' detailed status
and academic information in a secure and accessible system.

